Question 1.
Define HTML and explain its role in web development. (5 marks)

HTML stands for Hyper Text Markup Language· HTML is used as the standard markup language for making Web pages · HTML describes the structure of a Web page. HTML works to build this structure by using tags that tell browsers what to do with text. 

Question 2.
Describe the box model in CSS and how it influences the layout of elements on a webpage. (5 marks)

The CSS box modelused to create the design and layot of webpages. It is a container that contains multiple properties including borders, margin, padding as well as the wbesite's content.

Question 3.
Explain the difference between inline and block-level elements in HTML and provide examples
of each. (5 marks)

The difference between inline elements and block-line elements in html are:

Inline elements occupy only enough width that is sufficient to it and allows other elements next to it which are also inline. Inline elements don’t start from a new line and don’t have top and bottom margins like block elements have. An axample of a inline element is <br>

Whereas block elements consume the entire width available. They always start in a new line and have top and bottom margins. They don't contain any other elements next them. For example <h1> <h6> are block elements.

Question 4.
What is the purpose of CSS media queries? How are they used to implement responsive design? (5
marks)

Media queries are used to adapt websites to different screen sizes for example they can change the look fo a website viewed on a mobile phone.They can also be used to detect other things about the environment your site is running on, for example whether the user is using a touchscreen rather than a mouse.

Question 5.
Describe the importance of semantic HTML elements and provide at least three examples of such
elements. (5 marks)

A semantic element clearly describes its meaning to both the browser and the developer.They're important as they can help users using screenreaders understand the contant of a website.
Some examples of semantic elements are <form>, <table>, and <article> 
